"Subject Code": "COMP5523"
"Subject Title": "Computer Vision and Image Processing"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Pre-requisite/Exclusion": "Nil"
"Objectives": "• To let the students learn the fundamental principles on the aspects of interdisciplinary research including acquiring, processing, analyzing, understanding and utilizing high-dimensional visual data from the real world; • To equip the students with the knowledge of how to develop artificial intelligent systems which automate tasks that the human visual system can do; • To guide the students to understand the relevant state of art technologies and gain experience throughout a variety of case studies."
"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: a. critically review and consolidate various methods for digital image processing and analysis and relate or apply them to different applications. b. grasp various algorithms for vision related tasks and develop creative solutions to practical problems by considering various requirements and complex issues (e.g., legal/social/ethics issues). c. carry out in-depth analysis of the digital image data with different image data models, pattern recognition algorithms and learning theory. d. demonstrate leadership and qualities of reflective practitioners by engaging in a group project on vision related topics and various learning activities. e. communicate effectively to peers and senior colleagues and present quality deliverables through reading and writing reports and documents."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "1. Introduction: a. The background; b. An overview of the related fields; c. The development of vision systems. 2. Image acquisition and formation models: a. Imaging systems; b. Geometry of image formation; c. Camera models and calibration; d. Orthographic and perspective projections. 3. The fundamentals of image processing: a. Image enhancement; b. Image representation; c. Image transformations. 4. The fundamentals of deep learning: a. Basic concept of machine learning; b. Deep neural network; c. Transformer. 5. 2D Vision: a. Image feature, matching and retrieval; b. Image segmentation, understanding and object recognition; c. Optical flow, video tracking and motion detection; d. Image and video generation. 6. 3D vision: a. The geometry of multiple views; b. Reconstruction: Shape from multiple views and single view; c. 3D Scene understanding. 7. Applications: Industry, mapping, robots and games. 8. Professionalism and legal/social/ethics issues related to computer vision (e.g., personal data (privacy) ordinance)."
"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "Lectures teach students on the main concepts of the course, together with comprehensive examples, and class questions/answers/discussions for easy understanding. Tutorials and lab sessions offer the opportunity for students to review and consolidate the lecture and reference materials through exercises and software tools. Project assignments will give students the opportunity to solve practical visual information analysis problems. Written assignments help students to develop a solid foundation of visual information processing and analysis throughout the project work of case studies."
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Written assignments and quiz 15%; 2. Project Assignment 15%; 3. Examination 70%; Total 100%. Explanation: Written assignments, tests/quizzes, and examination are used to test and deepen students’ understanding of the subject materials while project assignment is used to provide a hands-on experience of how the subject materials are applied."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class contact: Lectures 26Hrs., Tutorials/Labs 13Hrs. Total class contact 39Hrs. Other student study effort: Reading 26Hrs., Written and Project Assignments, Quizzes/Tests, Examination 40Hrs. Total student study effort 105Hrs."
"Reading List and References": "1. D.A. Forsyth and J. Ponce, Computer Vision: A Modern Approach, 2nd Ed., Prentice-Hall, 2011. 2. Gonzalez, Rafael, Digital Image Processing, 4th Ed., Pearson Hall, 2019, ISBN-13: 978-9353062989 ISBN-10: 9353062985. 3. Richard Szeliski, Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications, 2nd Ed., 2022, ISBN-10: 3030343715, ISBN-13: 978-3030343712. 6. V Kishore Ayyadevara and Yeshwanth Reddy. Modern Computer Vision with PyTorch: A practical roadmap from deep learning fundamentals to advanced applications and Generative AI, 2nd Ed., 2024, ISBN-13: 978-1803231334 ISBN-10: 1803231335."
"Class Time": "Monday 18:30-21:20"