"Subject Code": "COMP5152"
"Subject Title": "Advanced Data Analytics"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Pre-requisite/ Co-requisite/ Exclusion": "Nil (but some knowledge in machine learning, data analytics, and programming language is preferable)"
"Objectives": "The objectives of this course are to: 1. get familiar with data analytic frameworks; 2. learn existing machine learning/data mining/data analysis algorithms and techniques; 3. differentiate various data types and build suitable models to perform analytics; 4. utilize existing software or write programs... 5. conduct a group project based on real-world data."
"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: a) conduct an end-to-end data analytics project... b) deeply understand various algorithms and techniques... c) apply advanced data analytical techniques to various applications... d) carry out in-depth analysis of the data encountered in sophisticated applications..."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "1. Introduction to data analytics... 2. Statistical methods for data analysis which include linear and logistic regression... 3. Data analytics involving special data types... 4. Advanced analytics techniques... Convolutional networks, autoencoders... 5. Programming languages and tools for data analytics. 6. Useful applications in financial analytics, news analytics, and social media analytics."
"Teaching /Learning Methodology": "Lectures teach students on the main concepts and methods of the course... Tutorials and lab sessions offer the opportunity for students to review and consolidate... Project assignments give students the opportunity to solve practical data analysis problems. Written assignments help students to develop a solid foundation..."
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Midterm assessment 15%; 2. Projects 15%; 3. Examination 70%; Total 100%. Explanation: Midterm assessment: assessment of the theoretic studies... Project: assessment of the ability for problem solving... Examination: assessment of students' overall performance..."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class contact: Lecture/Tutorial/Lab 39 Hrs. Other student study effort: Reading 40 Hrs. Prepare written and project and assignments, quizzes/tests, examination 26 Hrs. Total student study effort 105 Hrs."
"Reading List and References": "Pandas: https://pandas.pydata.org... WesMcKinney Python for Data Analysis... Kaggle: https://www.kaggle.com/. Aurelien Geron, Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras, and TensorFlow..."
"Class Time": "Friday 18:30-21:20"