"Subject Code": "COMP5425"
"Subject Title": "Multimedia Coding and Networking"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Pre-requisite/ Co-requisite/ Exclusion": "The students are recommended to have general knowledge about signals and systems"
"Objectives": "The objectives of this course are: 1. to teach the students comprehensive and in-depth knowledge in multimedia coding and networking, including coding of speech, audio, image, and video signals and networking of multimedia data over both Internet and broadband wireless channels; 2. to apply the knowledge learned in this class to solve real-life problems in speech coding, audio coding, image/video coding, as well as networked transport of various multimedia data."
"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: (a) develop and understand the insights into multimedia data types in speech, audio, image and video, in particular unique characteristics for each of these data type for efficient encoding and representation; (b) develop and understand the special Quality of Service requirements for transporting multimedia data over both wired and wireless networks, leveraging emerging technologies for global challenges; (c) acquire in-depth knowledge of the algorithmic principles for the encoding of multimedia signals as well as practical strategies designed to transport multimedia data when there are errors in networking, addressing complex interdisciplinary issues with professionalism; and (d) apply multimedia coding and networking technologies learned in this course to develop working solutions for the technical problems encountered in practical scenarios, for societal benefit and sustainability."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "The content of the subject consists of three parts as follows, including both theoretical foundations and practical system designs: Part 1: Theoretical foundation of multimedia signal coding (a) Speech generation and representation; (b) Audio generation and representation; (c) Image and video acquisition and representation; (d) Information theory basics, concept of entropy; (e) Analog-to-digital conversion, signal quantization. Part 2: Theoretical foundation of networking and communications (a) Basic layered concept for networking; (b) TCP/IP protocols, UDP protocols, Real-Time protocols; (c) Networking Quality-of-Service (QoS) measures; (d) Network traffic shaping principles, multimedia transcoding; (e) Wireless networking principles, broadband networking; (f) Transport of multimedia data, multimedia networking QoS. Part 3: Practical multimedia coding and networking algorithms and designs (a) Speech encoding/decoding techniques and standards; (b) Audio coding techniques and standards; (c) Image coding techniques and standards; (d) Video coding techniques and standards; (e) Rate adaptative transmission of multimedia data; (f) Error protection of multimedia networking; (g) wireless networking of images and videos."
"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "1. A total of 39 hours of classroom activities including lecture, tutorial, and seminars where applicable; 2. Learning is supplemented by homework and tutorials; 3. The students are assessed through assignments, project, midterm exam and final exam."
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Midterm Test/ Project 30%; 2. Final Exam 70%; Total 100%. Explanation: Homework: designed to assess the theoretic studies with respect to the understanding of relevant subject matters including new concepts, algorithms and techniques by proving answers to the assignment questions. Midterm Test and final exam: designed to assess the overall performance of each student in grasping the concepts and algorithms learned in this course through both midterm and final exam. Project: designed to assess students’ ability for problem solving through real case studies and algorithmic implementation of some prototype multimedia coding and networking systems for demonstration."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class contact: Lecture 33 Hrs., Seminar/ Tutorial 6 Hrs. Total class contact 39 Hrs. Other student study effort: Homework 40 Hrs., Projects 26 Hrs. Total student study effort 105 Hrs."
"Reading List and References": "(1) Ze-Nian Li, Mark S. Drew, Jiangchuan Liu, Fundamentals of Multimedia, 3rd Ed., Springer, 2021 Edition (ISBNs: 978-3-03-062124-7, 978-3-03-062123-0); (2) Jeng-Neng Hwang, Multimedia Networking: from Theory to Practice, Cambridge University Press, 2009 (ISBN 978-0-521-88204-0); (3) Recent Papers from Multimedia Journals and Conferences."
"Class Time": "Thursday 18:30-21:20"