"Subject Code": "COMP5575"
"Subject Title": "Advanced Techniques for High-Dimensional Data Management and Analytics"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Pre-requisite/ Co-requisite/ Exclusion": "Some knowledge in databases and analytics is preferable"
"Objectives": "After successfully completing this course, you should be able to: 1. identify the key characteristics of various complex high-dimensional data types, including time-series, geospatial, spatiotemporal, and multimedia data, compared to traditional relational database; 2. understand and design efficient data management solutions for spatial and spatiotemporal data using state-of-the-art algorithms and technologies; 3. analyze and apply forecasting techniques for time-series data to predict future trends and patterns in real-world contexts; 4. incorporate machine learning and AI techniques into analysis and applications of multimedia data to derive actionable insights; 5. gain proficiency in advanced techniques for high-dimensional data, utilizing database management, machine learning, and AI approaches."
"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: a. describe and classify various complex high-dimensional data types and demonstrate their practical use in real-world scenarios; b. design and implement efficient indexing and querying algorithms for geospatial and spatiotemporal data and validate their efficiency, strengths, and limitations through practical assignments; c. apply and evaluate forecasting techniques for different types of time-series data, such as stock prices, retail sales, and traffic flow, deriving insights through hands-on case studies; d. utilize machine learning and AI techniques to analyze multimedia data, such as image, audio and video data, presenting findings through demonstrations and reports; e. create and interpret data visualizations using advanced tools, effectively communicating high-dimensional data insights to diverse audiences through visual storytelling and interactive dashboards."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "• Introduction to High-Dimensional Data: overview of high-dimensional data types; comparison with traditional relational databases; real-world application and challenges. • Geospatial & Spatiotemporal Data: characteristics and organization of geospatial and spatiotemporal data; diverse trajectory similarity measures; efficient indexing structures and querying algorithms; advanced routing algorithms on road networks. • Times-series Data: introduction to different types of time-series data and their characteristics; time-series data modeling such as recurrent neural networks; forecasting techniques and prediction models. • Multimedia Data: introduction to different types of multimedia data and feature extraction; similarity search and information retrieval; integration of machine learning and AI techniques."
"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "• Lectures will introduce abstract concepts, complex algorithms, and practical applications to help students thoroughly understand and master these high-dimensional data and related knowledge. The focus will be on conceptual and algorithmic understanding. • Tutorials will provide opportunities to practice the knowledge delivered by lectures through short-answer questions and other formats. Students will actively express their understanding and solidify their learning. • Labs, if applicable, will be tailored to either an engineering-oriented or research-oriented approach based on student preference. Students can choose to implement high-dimensional solutions systematically or design new algorithms or models with academic novelty. • Workshop seminar, if applicable, will invite experts from both academia and industry who will share state-of-the-art ideas and knowledge in high-dimensional data management and analytics in real life. 39 hours of class activities including lecture, tutorial, lab, workshop seminar where applicable."
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Assignments, Projects, and Tests 30%; 2. Final Examination 70%; Total 100%. Explanation: The continuous assessments evaluate students' mastery of core concepts and practical application capabilities of high-dimensional data management and analytics techniques. The final exam evaluates students' comprehensive knowledge and understanding of the entire course content, ensuring that students can synthesize and apply their learning to complex problems."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class contact: Class activities (lecture, tutorial, lab) 39 Hrs. Other student study effort: Assignments, Projects, Exams 66 Hrs. Total student study effort 105 Hrs."
"Reading List and References": "Textbooks: (1) Mamoulis, Nikos. Spatial data management. Springer Nature, 2022. (2) Zheng, Yu, and Xiaofang Zhou. Computing with spatial trajectories. Springer Science & Business Media, 2011. (3) Bühlmann, Peter, and Sara Van De Geer. Statistics for high-dimensional data: methods, theory and applications. Springer Science & Business Media, 2011. (4) Shmueli, Galit, and Julia Polak. Practical time series forecasting with r: A hands-on guide. Axelrod schnall publishers, 2024. (5) Bhatti, Uzair Aslam, et al., eds. Deep Learning for Multimedia Processing Applications: Volume Two: Signal Processing and Pattern Recognition. CRC Press, 2024. Other references: Academic papers from top database and data mining conferences and journals including ICDE, SIGMOD, KDD, etc."
"Class Time": "Friday 18:30-21:20"