"Subject Code": "COMP5327"
"Subject Title": "Wireless Networking and Mobile Computing"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Pre-requisite / Co-requisite/ Exclusion": "Nil (but some knowledge in internet infrastructure and protocols is preferable)"
"Objectives": "After completing this subject, students will learn about: • enabling technologies for wireless networking and mobile computing; • wireless networking standards; • mobile computing applications."
"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: a. show in-depth understanding of advanced wireless networking technologies and their applications in a variety of real-world applications, addressing complex interdisciplinary issues with professionalism; b. work with apply coherent and state-of-the-art knowledge on related protocols and technologies, design innovative solusions and critically assess their performance, leveraging emerging technologies for global challenges; c. categorize and summarize the trends and development of wireless networking and mobile computing, continuously adapting and reflecting on personal growth; d. demonstrate team work spirit in group projects, communicate appropriately with a range of audiences in presentation and summarize results in technical reports, fostering intercultural and interdisciplinary interactions."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "1) Cellular Networks and 5G: Frequency Reuse, Access Protocols, Location Management, Handoff Management, Cellular Network Standards (2G/3G/4G/5G), Key Features and Advancements in 5G (e.g., enhanced mobile broadband, ultra-reliable low-latency communication, massive IoT connectivity). 2) Wireless Local Area Networks: Overview of IEEE 802.11 Standards (Wi-Fi 4/5/6), Access Protocols, Mobility Management, Advances in High-Efficiency WLANs. 3) Personal Area Networks and Bluetooth: Overview of Bluetooth Standards, Piconet and Scatternet, Frequency Hopping, Baseband Protocol, Link Manager Protocol, Logical Link Control and Adaptation Protocol, Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE). 4) Mobile/Wireless Security: Security in Cellular Networks (including 5G), Wi-Fi Security, Bluetooth Security, Security Challenges in Satellite Communication. 5) Location-aware Computing: GPS, Indoor Positioning Techniques, Location-aware Applications, Emerging Positioning Solutions in 5G and Satellite Networks. 6) Mobile Computing Applications: Mobile Apps, Edge Computing for Mobile Devices, Case Studies of Real-world Applications. 7) LEO Satellite Communication: Fundamentals of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) Satellite Networks, Architecture and Communication Protocols, Integration with Terrestrial Networks, Applications in Global Connectivity and IoT. 8) Other Selected Topics: Mobile IP, RFID, Wireless Sensor Networks, Recent Trends and Emerging Technologies in Mobile and Wireless Communication."
"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "Teaching is mainly conducted through lectures. Learning is supplemented by labs/tutorials, seminars and e-learning methods, where applicable. Students are assessed through assignments, a project and an examination."
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Assignments 30%; 2. Project; 3. Examination 70%; Total 100%. Explanation: The project is used to assess all learning outcomes (a) – (d). The assignments are used as a continuous assessment method to assess learning outcomes (a) – (c) (e.g., students’ understanding of the technologies). Finally, students are assessed by a formal examination, covering learning outcomes (a) – (c)."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class contact: Class activities (lectures/tutorials/lab(s)) 39 Hrs. Other student study effort: Self-study, assignments, project, exam 66 Hrs. Total student study effort 105 Hrs."
"Reading List and References": "Journals: IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, IEEE Pervasive Computing, IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, ACM Wireless Networks, ACM Mobile Networks and Applications."
"Class Time": "Friday 18:30-21:20"