"Subject Code": "COMP5542"
"Subject Title": "Optimization and Applications"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Pre-requisite/ Co-requisite/ Exclusion": "Nil"
"Objectives": "1. To acquire fundamental knowledge in optimization; 2. To learn about optimization methods and techniques in the context of information technology, engineering, and investment; 3. To apply the knowledge in optimization and problem-solving."
"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: a. identify typical optimization problems in information technology, engineering, and investment; b. formulate optimization problems according to application requirements; c. demonstrate in-depth understanding of common optimization techniques; d. select suitable optimization solvers and configurations to solve given optimization problems."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "• Formulation of optimization problems: Decision variables, objective functions, constraints, standard formulations: linear programming, nonlinear programming and convex programming, simple graphical solutions, validity and tractability. Linear programming: Simplex method, slack variables, duality, convergence, variants of linear programming, integer programming, iterative method. • Nonlinear programming: Quadratic programming, Lagrange multipliers, Karush-Kuhn-Tucker conditions, Newton’s method, steepest descent, conjugate gradient, branch-and-bound. Convex programming: Convex sets, convex functions, conjugate duality, semidefinite programming, interior-point, first order method. • Optimization solvers: CPLEX, MATLAB, OptimJ. Applications: Scheduling, energy minimization, network flow, portfolio optimization, prediction and forecasting, etc."
"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "A mix of lectures and tutorials is used to deliver the various topics in this subject. Lectures are conducted to cover principles, methods, and techniques of optimization. During tutorial sessions, students use the principles to formulate various optimization problems, and learn to use the major optimization solvers (both open-source and commercial). The projects provide students the opportunity to gain hands-on experience on the solvers. 39 hours of class activities including lectures and tutorials."
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Assignments, Tests & Projects 30%; 2. Final Examination 70%; Total 100%."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class contact: Class activities (lecture, tutorial) 39 Hrs. Other student study effort: Assignments, Tests, Projects, Exams 66 Hrs. Total student study effort 105 Hrs."
"Reading List and References": "1. Bertrand Guenin and Jochen Könemann and Levent Tunçel (2014), A Gentle Introduction to Optimization, Cambridge University Press. 2. Nemhauser, G. L., Wolsey, L. A. (1999), Integer and Combinatorial Optimization, Wiley, New York. 3. David G. Luenberger and Yinyu Ye (2016), Linear and Nonlinear Programming, 4th ed., Springer. 4. Mokhtar S. Bazaraa, Hanif D. Sherali, and C. M. Shetty (2006), Nonlinear Programming: Theory and Algorithms, 3rd Ed, Wiley, New Jersey. 5. Stephen Boyd and Lieven Vandenberghe (2008), Convex Optimization (With Corrections), Cambridge University Press, Cambridge UK."
"Class Time": "Tuesday 8:30-11:20"