"Subject Code": "COMP5573"
"Subject Title": "Theory and Practice of Video Game Design"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Pre-requisite/ Co-requisite/ Exclusion": "Nil"
"Objectives": "To provide students with comprehensive theoretical foundations and practical capabilities of video game design, covering core design concepts, prototyping methods, documentation standards, and pitching skills for game projects."
"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: Professional/academic knowledge and skills a) gain a comprehensive understanding of various game genres, and generate unique and creative ideas for game concepts; b) master core game design principles and mechanics design methodologies; c) create low-fidelity prototypes to test game design concepts and mechanics; d) develop a comprehensive Game Design Document (GDD) that outlines the game's concept, mechanics, design, monetization strategy, and technical requirements; e) prepare and deliver a concise and persuasive game pitch aimed at stakeholders; f) evaluate and provide constructive criticism on game pitches and design works from peers; g) understand the importance of iterative documentation and revise the GDD in response to feedback and development challenges; h) apply systematic game design thinking to solve practical design problems in real-world game development scenarios."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "9. Idea Generation: Use brainstorming techniques and tools to generate unique and creative game concepts. 10. Rapid Prototyping: Create low-fidelity prototypes to test game design concepts and mechanics. 11. Prepare a Game Pitch: Develop a concise and persuasive game pitch presentation aimed at stakeholders, showcasing the game's concept, market potential, and design. 12. Pitch Evaluation: Evaluate and provide constructive criticism on game pitches from peers. 13. Develop a GDD: Create a comprehensive Game Design Document that outlines the game's concept, mechanics, design, monetization strategy, and technical requirements. 14. Document Review: Understand the importance of iterative documentation and demonstrate the ability to revise and update the Game Design Document in response to feedback and development challenges."
"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "The subject material will be delivered through lectures, tutorials, and labs. Lectures will focus on the delivery of the theoretical foundations and practical knowhows. Guest lectures from the industry or practitioners will be invited to introduce the game design and pitching in solving real-world problems. Tutorials and labs will provide students guidance and opportunities in applying what they have learned during the lectures in the design, development and evaluation of game design. Group project and individual assignments will provide students with in-depth opportunities to practice the lecture concepts, as well as to assess their ability to apply these concepts in practical scenarios. The final examination will assess students on their grasp of the subject materials."
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Continuous Assessment (Individual Assignments and Group Project) 30%; 2. Final Examination 70%; Total 100%. Explanation: The individual assignment(s) are designed to reinforce the theoretical foundations and practical knowhows learned during the lectures. The group project is used to develop students’ ability in solving problems by using systematic approaches, collaboration with peer students, and quick prototyping of game when facing real-world scenarios. Individual contributions to the group project will be evaluated through self-reported contribution lists and workload distribution lists. The final examination is used to assess students on their grasp of the subject materials."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class contact: Lectures 26 Hrs., Tutorials and Labs 13 Hrs. Total class contact 39 Hrs. Other student study effort: Group Project, Individual Assignments, and Final Examination 66 Hrs. Total student study effort 105 Hrs."
"Reading List and References": "Relevant industry guidelines, game design documents from mainstream commercial games, and academic papers on game design research and practice."
"Class Time": "Wednesday 18:30-21:20"