"Subject Code": "COMP5112" 

"Subject Title": "Data Structures and Database Systems" 

"Credit Value": "3" 

"Level": "5" 

"Pre-requisite/ Co-requisite/ Exclusion": "Nil" 

"Class Time": "Monday 18:30-21:20"

"Objectives": "The objectives of this subject are to: 1. apply data structures, sorting and searching algorithms in developing computer programs; 2. use and administrate a database system properly." 

"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: a. demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of data structures, sorting and searching algorithms; b. apply database systems and the associated tools in real-life problems; c. apply the principles and practices of good database design and analysis in real-life problems, leveraging emerging technologies for global challenges." 

"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "1. Data structures: representation and algorithms Linear structures: linked-lists, stacks, queues; tree structures: binary trees, balanced trees, tree traversals; common data structures: priority queues, heaps. 2. Sorting and searching algorithms sorting algorithms: bubble sort, insertion sort, selection sort, quick sort, merge sort, heap sort. 3. Basic concepts of database system and its applications; DBMS design objectives and its components; data independence. 4. Relational data model structure; relational algebra; SQL; relational constraints. 5. Database design Entity-relationship model; functional dependencies; normalization. 6. Data storage and querying File organization; indexing and hashing; query processing." 

"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "This subject emphasizes the technical aspects of data structures and practical aspects of database systems. It is intended to equip the student with knowledge and experience on solving real-life problems by using data structures and database systems. The lectures will be used to deliver course material. Labs and tutorials will be used to practice exercises." 

"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Quizzes and Assignments: 30%; 2. Exam: 70%; Total: 100%" 

"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class contact: Lecture 26 Hrs., Tutorial/Lab 13 Hrs.; Other student study effort: Assignments, reading book chapters 66 Hrs.; Total student study effort 105 Hrs." 

"Reading List and References": "1. Frank M. Carrano, Data Abstraction & Problem Solving with C++: Walls & Mirrors, 7th Edition, Pearson, 2017. 2. Goodrich, M.T. and Tamassia, R., Data Structures and Algorithms in Java, 6th Edition, John Wiley, 2014. 3. A Silberschatz, H.F. Korth, S. Sudarshan. Database System Concepts, 7th Edition, McGraw Hill, 2019. 4. Hector Garcia-Molina, Jeffrey D. Ullman & Jennifer Widom. Database System Implementation, Prentice Hall, 3rd Edition, 2008." [cite: 29]