"Subject Code": "COMP5513"
"Subject Title": "Financial Computing"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Pre-requisite/Exclusion": "Nil"
"Objectives": "The purpose of this subject is to provide an introduction to finance and to study the basic computational techniques/tools for finance. This includes the study of computational models and quantitative methods. After completing the subject, students will acquire the core knowledge and practical skills of financial computing."
"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: a. develop a thorough understanding of the key concepts of finance; b. apply various computational techniques for finance; c. solve related finance problems and evaluate the results; d. evaluate ethical issues in finance; e. practice presentation and communication skills (e.g., through case study report/presentations); f. develop teamwork skills."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "• Introduction to Finance : Finance Basics (e.g., Finance Industry, Time Value of Money), Debt and Bond, Equity, Derivatives, Other Investments (e.g., Foreign Exchange, Commodities, Hedge Funds), Related Theories (e.g., CAP-M). • Computational Methods for Finance: Mathematical, Statistical, Behavioural, Machine Learning-based, Simulation-based Methods etc. • Other Topics: FinTech (e.g., Cryptocurrencies), Ethics in Finance, Case Studies etc."
"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "Formal lectures will be used to present concepts about and mathematical models in finance and to introduce various computational techniques to solve financial computing problems. Students are expected to have a good mathematical background (e.g., knowledge of probability, statistics and calculus). Tutorials and/or labs will be used to discuss more details of computational techniques learned and to solve problems with models/tools. Seminars and/or guest lectures will be used for presentation of assignments and discussions (e.g., journal articles and conference papers on computational finance) as well as experience sharing (e.g., real-life experience). 39 hours of class activities including lecture, tutorial, workshop and/or seminar where applicable."
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Continuous Assessment: Individual Assignment(s), Group Project and Other Assessment(s) 30%; 2. Final Examination 70%; Total 100%. Explanation: The group project is designed to assess all intended learning outcomes of the subject. The individual assignment(s) evaluate students’ knowledge and understanding of the subject matter. Other assessment(s) (e.g., in-class quizzes) are used to assess participation and monitor attendance. Finally, students’ overall performance is assessed through a formal examination."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class Contact: Class activities (lecture, tutorial, workshop) 39 hours. Other student study effort: Reading, assignments, project, exams 66 hours. Total student study effort 105 hours."
"Reading List and References": "Books: 1. Bodie, Z., Kane, A., and Marcus, A., 2013, Investments, McGraw-Hill, 10th Edition. 6. Levy, H., Levy, M. and Solomon, S., 2003, Microscopic Simulation of Financial Markets, Academic Press. London."
"Class Time": "Wednesday 18:30-21:20"
