"Subject Code": "COMP 5311"
"Subject Title": "Internet Infrastructure and Protocols"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Pre-requisite/ Exclusion": "Nil"
"Objectives": "The overall objective of this course is to build up a solid understanding on the networking technologies underpinning the current Internet infrastructure. This course would serve as an important pre-requisite for other more advanced topics, such as network security, network measurement and diagnosis, wireless and mobile networks, and multimedia networking. The teaching approach will be based on in-depth problem-solving and hands-on class projects. Specifically, a) utilize coherent and advanced body of networking knowledge to conduct in-depth research on network protocols develop creative solutions, and conduct performance evaluations in practical settings; professional computer networking domain; b) utilize various specialized network diagnosis tools and apply; c) critically review and summarize latest advances in specialized networking topics that require foundational in-depth understanding of network protocols such as TCP/IP suite, leveraging emerging technologies for global challenges."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "• Data-link networks and IP: shared medium and point-to-point networks; the internetworking problem, the hour-glass model, address resolution, IP fragmentation, packet reordering, IP addressing. • IP forwarding: longest prefix match algorithms, routing vs switching, IP address lookup, packet classification, IP tunnelling, ICMP. • End-to-end issues and protocols: end-to-end argument, end-to-end reliability, TCP and UDP, sliding window protocol, acknowledgment strategies. • Control congestion in Internet: TCP slow-start and congestion avoidance, TCP fast retransmit and recovery, fairness, buffer management, packet scheduling, and queue management. • Applications protocols, e.g., DNS and HTTP, and their interactions with the lower layers. • Internet routing: Internet topology, distance vector, link state, and path vector routing protocols, convergence and routing loops, Routing Information Protocol, Open Shortest Path Protocol, Border Gateway Protocol, Inter-AS relationship. • Design philosophy of IP and TCP, and future challenges."
"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "Class activities including - lecture, tutorial, lab, workshop seminar where applicable"
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Assignments, Tests & Projects 30%; 2. Final Examination 70%; Total 100%."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class Contact: Class activities (lecture, tutorial, lab) 39 hours. Other student study effort: Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Exams 66 hours. Total student study effort 105 hours."
"Reading List and References": "(1) J. Kurose and K. Ross, Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach, 8th Edition, Pearson, 2020. (2) L. Peterson and B. S. Davie, Computer Networks: A Systems Approach, https://book.systemsapproach.org/, 2019. (3) Academic Journals and Conference Papers such as publications in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, ACM SIGCOMM, ACM MobiCom, and IEEE INFOCOM."
"Class Time": "Wednesday 18:30-21:20"