"Subject Code": "COMP 5422"
"Subject Title": "Multimedia Computing, Systems and Applications"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Pre-requisite/Exclusion": "Nil"
"Objectives": "The objectives of this subject are to: 1. provide students with knowledge in fundamentals of multimedia, e.g. compression standards, data formats, media characteristics, storage and transmission requirements; 2. provide students with knowledge of a wide spectrum of multimedia information processing techniques; 3. train students with the ability to apply the knowledge in multimedia system and application development; 4. equip students with the ability to appreciate new and innovative solutions of multimedia systems and applications."
"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 1. have a good understanding on various characteristics of different media; 2. have a deep understanding of the techniques and requirements for processing multimedia, leveraging emerging technologies for global challenges; 3. grasp and consolidate the skills for problem solving involving multimedia databases, addressing complex interdisciplinary issues with professionalism; 4. conduct real-world case study in multimedia applications, fostering intercultural and interdisciplinary interactions and demonstrating critical awareness and integrity in making responsible decisions."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "• Multimedia System Primer : Introduction to different multimedia platforms, systems, tools and applications; Data characteristics of different media and current trends. • Data Representation, Coding and Compression : Data representation, processing and analysis for Text, Sound/Audio, Image and Graphics, Video and Animation; Traditional coding requirements, compression techniques and standards: JPEG, MPEG, DVI, ASF, etc; Neural compression, codecs and large multimodal foundation models. • Multimedia Content Analysis and Information Retrieval : Multimedia contents: Color, shape, texture, motion, etc. analysis; Traditional Content analysis techniques: Color histogram, shape analysis, motion analysis, etc. Multimodal knowledge extraction and integration. Multimedia retrieval techniques: object detection, scene understanding, video summarization, etc. • Multimedia Security and Forensics : Traditional Digital watermarking, spatial and frequency domain techniques, livebitstream watermarking and content protection. AI-driven multimedia forensics: deepfake detection, adversarial attacks and defenses in multimedia systems. • Multimedia Information Networking : Video streaming, color models and motion estimation techniques, protocol support for multimedia networkings. AI-enhanced multimedia streaming systems and intelligent networking. • Selected Topics in Multimedia Computing, Systems and Applications: future directions for multimodal AI agents and embodied intelligence."
"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "39 hours of class activities including - lecture, tutorial, lab, workshop seminar where applicable."
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Assignments, Tests & Projects 30%; 2. Final Examination 70%; Total 100%."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class contact: Class activities (lecture, tutorial, lab) 39 hours. Other student study effort: Assignments, Tests, Projects, Exams 66 hours. Total student study effort 105 hours."
"Reading List and References": "Books: 1. Z.-N. Li, M.S. Drew, J. Liu, Fundamentals of Multimedia, Springer, 2004. 2. Lewis, Richard, 2005, Digital media: An introduction, Prentice Hall. 3. Borko Furht (ed), 1999, Handbook of Multimedia Computing. CRC Press. 4. R. C. Gonzalez, Digital Image Processing, 4th ed., 2017. 5. G. Friedland and R. Jain, Multimedia Computing, Cambridge University Press, 2014. Journals: 1. IEEE Multimedia 2. IEEE Trans. on Multimedia 3. ACM SIG Multimedia."
"Class Time": "Thursday 14:30-17:20"