"Subject Code": "COMP5423"
"Subject Title": "Natural Language Processing"
"Credit Value": "3"
"Level": "5"
"Objectives": "The objectives of this subject are to enable students to acquire: 1. essential knowledge of natural language processing and its application scenarios; 2. practical techniques to handle and process natural language text; 3. fundamental skills to develop systems with natural language processing techniques and tools; and 4. basic building blocks to design innovative software for different communities."
"Intended Learning Outcomes": "Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: a. understand and apply fundamental knowledge and advanced techniques of natural language processing for textual information processing; b. develop creative solutions to solve technical problems through critical thinking, analytical thinking and creative thinking, leveraging emerging technologies for global challenges; c. demonstrate the ability to design, implement and evaluate effective natural language processing systems and applications to fulfill the real- world needs, demonstrating critical awareness and integrity in making responsible decisions; and d. engage in life-long independent learning for professional development, continuously adapting and reflecting on personal growth."
"Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus": "Natural Language Processing Core Concepts Natural Language Processing Models and Techniques Natural Language Processing Applications Selected Topics in Natural Language Processing with Deep Learning Morphological Analysis, Syntactic Analysis and Parsing, Semantic Analysis, Discourse Analysis, and the Problem of Ambiguity. Text Segmentation, Classification, Ranking, Sequence Labeling, N-Gram Language Model, Topic Model, Role of Machine Learning and Data Mining in Natural Language Processing, Natural Language Processing Tools, and Large Language Models (LLMs). Machine Translation, Question Answering, Summarization, Opinion Mining and Sentiment Classification, Dialogue and Conversation, Reading Comprehension, Information Retrieval and Extraction, News Recommendation, etc. Word Embedding (Word2Vec), Convolutional Neural Network, Recurrent Neural Network, Recursive Neural Network, Sequence to Sequence Model."
"Teaching/Learning Methodology": "Lectures teach students on the main concepts of the course, together with comprehensive examples, and class questions and answers for easy understanding. Tutorials and lab sessions help students to review the learned concepts, master the practical techniques and necessary tools for effective system/application development. Group project offers the opportunity to students to develop analytical and problem solving skills through system implementation and interpersonal communication."
"Assessment Methods in Alignment with Intended Learning Outcomes": "1. Assignment and Project 30%; 2. Final Examination 70%; Total 100%. Explanation: Lecture assignment and final examination evaluate student’s ability to understand fundamental knowledge, to analyze and solve the problem problems through critical thinking, analytical thinking and creative thinking. Lab assignment and project evaluate student’s ability to apply learned techniques and tools to design and implement real-world application systems. Project also evaluates their abilities of independent learning and group communication."
"Student Study Effort Expected": "Class contact: Class Activities (Lecture, Tutorial, Lab) 39 Hrs. Other student study effort: Assignments, Projects, Exams 66 Hrs. Total student study effort 105 Hrs."
"Reading List and References": "(1) Daniel Jurafsky and James H. Martin. Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech Recognition. Prentice Hall. 2000. (2) Christopher D. Manning and Hinrich Schütze. Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing. The MIT Press. 1999. (3) Nitin Indurkhya and Fred J. Damerau. Handbook of Natural Language Processing. Chapman and Hall/CRC. 2010. (4) Steven Bird, Ewan Klein and Edward Loper. Natural Language Processing with Python: Analyzing Text with the Natural Language Toolkit. O’Reilly Media. 2009. (5) Julia Silge and David Robinson. Text Mining with R. O’Reilly Media. 2018. (6) Li Deng and Yang Liu, Deep Learning in Natural Language Processing. Springer. 2018. (7) Yoav Goldberg and Graeme Hirst. Neural Network Methods for Natural Language Processing. Morgan & Claypool Publishers. 2017. (8) Jason Brownlee. Deep Learning for Natural Language Processing. Machine Learning Mastery, 2018."
"Class Time": "Tuesday 18:30-21:20"